>[@SplitMetric][https://splitmetrics.com/resources/minimum-detectable-effect-mde/] _(Increasing Test sensitivity)_
## What is the Minimum Detectable Effect (MDE)?

It’s a **minimum improvement over the conversion rate of the existing asset** (baseline conversion rate) that you want the experiment to detect. 

By setting MDE, you define the conversion rate increase sufficient for the system to declare the new asset a winner. The lower MDE you set, the slighter conversion changes will be detected by the system. Basically, MDE measures the experiment sensitivity.

Highly sensitive settings, or low MDE, come along with a big sample size. _The lower the MDE is, the more traffic you need to detect minor changes, hence the more money you have to spend on driving that traffic_.
##  Why is setting the right MDE so important? 

>**Minimum detectable effect is a crucial parameter for evaluating the cost and potential return on running A/B experiments.**

MDE has a dramatic effect on the amount of traffic required to reach statistical significance. To know your maximum sample size, use [the Evan Miller calculator](https://www.evanmiller.org/ab-testing/sequential.html) for sequential A/B sampling.

By setting **smaller MDE**, you tell the system to detect slighter conversion rate changes, which requires more traffic and possibly time. On the other hand, the **larger MDE** you set, the less traffic (and possibly time) is required to finish the test.
## How to calculate the minimum detectable effect?

>This parameter depends on your own risks – _money_ you’re ready to allocate for the traffic acquisition and _time_ you can wait for the experiment to run.

To get MDE that works for you, you have to understand:
- **Traffic acquisition costs**, or the money you invest in driving the required sample size;
- **Potential revenue** generated from ASO-acquired users, in other words, the money you can make from using the new asset with a higher conversion rate.

**The best possible MDE implies that the potential revenue exceeds or compensates for the traffic acquisition costs.**

>**_MDE = (desired conversion rate lift / baseline conversion rate) x 100%_**

_Visit [@SplitMetric][https://splitmetrics.com/resources/minimum-detectable-effect-mde/] to see the workflow_ 

